# Balancing batch effect mitigation and cell-loss due to superloading
The data and scripts of this repository generate the figures of the main text and the supplementary text of the following manuscript:
Moderated designs can balance between batch-effect mitigation and cell loss due to hashtag-assisted pooling in single-cell experiments. 
Budha Chatterjee, Katrina Gorga, Carly Blair, Yuko Ohta, Elizabeth M Hill, Christopher T Boughter, Martin Meier-Schellersheim, Nevil J Singh.
bioRxiv. 2025.10. 16.682943.

## Summary
The goal here is to read, transform and integrate single cell count matrices from different pools in an experiment (kept in the directory ./data), to extract different experimental designs. These designs are then evaluated for the mitigation of batch effects and for cell loss due to demultiplexing.

## Description of the main scripts:
### Hash_well_01

This R markdown file reads the h5 files from the directory ./data, carries out demultiplexing, extracts different designs, carries out different transformation, integration steps for each design. Then it saves the normalized, integrated objects in the directory ./SObjects. Currently the latter directory is empty. Once the script is run the rds objects saved in this directory will take close to 10GB space. These objects are used in subsequent scripts but the rds objects are not provided here (due to GitHub space constraints) - those need to be locally generated by running this file.

### Hash_well_02

This R markdown file calculates the batch effects across all the processed objects: designs I-VI. Entropy measurements of each cell in each design for the different analytical pipelines are calculated and saved as rds objects (lists) in the directory ./BEffects. These objects are provided in the repository since they are not too large. These latter objects are used by other scripts (see below).
   
### Hash_well_03

This markdown uses the outputs saved from Hash_well_01 and Hash_well_02. It generates a bunch of figures in figure 3 of the manuscript and the series of supplementary figures (the UMAP visualizations).

### Hash_well_04

This markdown carries out the differential expression analysis between different samples within same pool or between same samples coming from different pools.

### Hash_well_05

This markdown generates the plots of GDE and IHE in figure 4. Also supplementary figure S5.

### Hash_well_06

This markdown estimates the x and y parameters from the hashtag data.
